ChucK Brief History
---
ChucK was created in the early 2000s at Princeton University by Ge Wang 
and Perry R. Cook, while Ge was a Ph.D. student advised by Perry in the 
Computer Science Department. The first version of ChucK was released under 
a GPL license in 2003. Over the years, many researchers, teachers, and 
artists have contributed to ChucK's evolution over the years. Spencer 
Salazar created miniAudicle, a GUI-based integrated development 
environment for ChucK in 2004 (this IDE, in addition to the command line 
version of ChucK, remains largely how ChucK is distributed and used 
today). The Princeton Laptop Orchestra (PLOrk), founded by Dan Trueman and 
Perry Cook in 2005, began using ChucK for teaching as well as instrument 
and sound design. In 2006, Rebecca Fiebrink and Ge Wang created ChucK's 
audio analysis framework, expressed through unit analyzers--the analysis 
counterpart to unit generators. Ge join the faculty at Stanford 
University's CCRMA in 2007, and ChucK research and development became 
distributed, with developers at Princeton, Stanford, and elsewhere. The 
Stanford Laptop Orchestra (SLOrk) was founded in 2008 at CCRMA, where 
ChucK continued to be a tool for instrument design and teaching. In that 
same year, the mobile music startup Smule was co-founded, which used ChucK 
on the iPhone (codenamed "ChiP") as a real-time audio engine for its early 
apps: Ocarina, Sonic Lighter, Zephyr, and Leaf Trombone: World Stage. 
Meanwhile, ChucK continued to find its way into computer music curricula, 
including at Stanford, Princeton, CalArts. In 2015, the book Programming 
for Musicians and Digital Artists: Creating music with ChucK was 
published, authored by Ajay Kapur, Perry Cook, Spencer Salazar, and Ge 
Wang. Around the same time, Kadenze introduced the online course 
Introduction to Real-Time Audio Programming in ChucK. Romain Michon and Ge 
Wang integrated FAUST and ChucK to create FaucK. In 2017, Jack Atherton 
created Chunity, which enables one to program ChucK inside the Unity game 
development framework. In 2018, Ge write about ChucK in Artful Design: 
Technology in Search of the Sublime, a photocomic book about the 
importance of cultural awareness in the shaping of technology. ChucK now 
runs natively in web browsers (WebChucK) and can be programmed directly in 
the WebChucK IDE.

ChucK has been extensively documented in published articles and books (see 
list). For an overview, check out:

“ChucK: A Strongly-Timed Music Programming Language“ comic book excerpt 
from Artful Design: Techonlogy in Search of the Sublime

Wang, G., P. R., Cook, and S. Salazar. 2015. "ChucK: A Strongly Timed 
Computer Music Language" Computer Music Journal 39:4. 
doi:10.1162/COMJ_a_00324

